# Disaster_Response_Project
We have a data set containing real messages that were sent during disaster events. We will create a machine learning pipeline to categorize these events so that we can send the messages to an appropriate disaster relief agency.  This project includes a web app where an emergency worker can input a new message and get classification results in several categories. The web app also displays visualizations of the data.


# Files Info
- data/process_data.py
This file is used to read data from 2 csv files, merges data from both of these file, transfrom this data into binary data and then save it as a sqlite database file.

- model/train_classifier.py
This file reads data from sqlite database file generated by process_data.py file and split this data into training and testing data. This data is then used to develop a model using Piplines and Grid Search algorithm. After training this model, it is saved in a file as classifier.pkl.

- app/run.py
This is a python file used to run webpages in ./templates folder. This file reads model developed by train_classifier.py file and then process the message input according to model. This file also finalizes vizualization on the page.

-templates/
This folder contains two .html files. master.html file serves as homepage for web application and get message input from user. While go.html file gets message from master file and displays result.

# How to use
- run data/process_data.py
- run models/train_classifier.py
- run app/run.py
- open 127.0.0.1:3001 in a web browser